---
layout: post
title: "Just read"
categories: read
---

My daughter is ten years old. She gets up around 5:20AM. She doesn't need a clock. But she had trouble to get up a few months ago.

I want to help her to form a good habit of getting up. Because I think it wastes time to consume it in bed during every morning. And the most important, I want her to like reading.

Why do I do this? I think it's the best way to help a kid to grow up by their own. Reading can help a kid a lot. But first She must like reading. I want her to read in every morning.  Because I think it's a good habit of reading.

In fact, I tried about three years ago. But I failed. I gave her my Kindle to read tales. I found she had trouble to read. She was at the beginning of studying and knew few words. Then I gave her a dictionary, taught her how to use it, and made sure she learned how to look up a word in the dictionary. I left her alone, reading tales on a small chair. 

When she finished reading. I asked her to tell tales to me. I found she did a good job. But she didn't show much interest in reading. So I didn't let her use the Kindle to read.

A half year ago, her mother bought her iPad for studying class lessons. But she used it to watch videos all the time. It might cause her eye trouble. I didn't know how to help her. Because she loved to watch videos so much. In another day, she came to tell me that she was reading novels from some novel app. She loved reading novels so much. But she still watched videos sometimes. I thought it to get better.

Her mother opposite my daughter to use the iPad all the time, including watching videos and reading novels. They argued and fight for the problem. I saw the problem and decided to change something. I told my daughter that if she can get up around five she can do anything she wanted and her mother was sleeping well.

She did it in the second day. She used the iPad clock to wake her up. Her mother was angry with the clock, and afraid it's harmful to get up around 5:20AM for her. I'm afraid too.

I decided to help her to go to sleep around 8:00PM. She also got up around 5:20AM without a clock. I thought she formed the habit. But she still used the iPad all the time.

Her mother was afraid it may affect her studying in school and forbidding her to use the iPad. I thought of the Kindle again. So I gave her the Kindle and open my e-book library to her. The library contained tens of thousands of all kinds of books, including many novels. She can read anything she loves.

She came to tell me that the novels were less interesting than those from the app. 


